Well, if you were to kind of start... Well, just to
continue, you saw them going to school every day in
their little uniforms and that. So there was a...
And I don't think it was just upper class. I think
everyone had an opportunity to be educated. I just
didn't see... I saw very few what you may call
street urchins roaming around. Oh, there
weren't? No, there weren't. You know, there
weren't any gangs or anything like that, I didn't
see. Now, it so happened that the procurement
agency was located in the prostitution district.
In your agency? That's where it was. It was right
down on Plantation Road. Is that what you call it?
That's right. So, there was that going on there,
but... But as I say, the Vietnamese, and just like
the Thais, had great respect for youth, and the
parents loved their children. Very touching. Not
very touching, but very admirable. You said even
you felt like all classes went to school. Was there
a great class society? I mean, can you tell a big
distinction? I think there was a class. It was more
by education than by money. Education probably
made the distinction, you know, than money. Was
there a lot of money? Didn't you have a lot of money?
I really couldn't tell, but I don't think...
I didn't see poverty there. Let's put it that way. I
did not see poverty. I didn't see poverty in
Thailand either. And I didn't see it, now we don't
know, I don't know whether it was, hey, the wartime
economy in Saigon meant there was a lot of money
around because everybody could get a job. But I
would sort of suspect that was it. There was a lot of
money around and everybody could get a job. Do you
think this was because of the contract we were
having that a certain ratio had to be Vietnamese? I
don't know whether that was it, but they're
probably very industrious people, and even
without that, they were getting a spillover,
maybe not such a direct spillover. When we say 20%
to Vietnamese, that meant 20% of our in-country
expenditures were going directly to the
Vietnamese. But even before that, I think it would
have probably reached the Vietnamese, but maybe
through one or two middlemen, you know? Right. But
I think we were making sure that more got down to the
Vietnamese. That was, as I said, both through the
contractors and requiring contractors to employ
Vietnamese. And I
didn't see anything which would be indicative of
graft or corruption. Do you have any certain
personal relationship with the Vietnamese
person? No, it was just all business. Although I
got that vase up there from the young lady in the
office. But we all liked it so much that when I went
to Hong Kong on a R&R,
we bought her a typewriter from the office.
Because we felt that she could use this at home or
maybe a little business or the rest of it. So
everybody in the office chipped in and we got her a
typewriter, among other things. Is she still over
there now? I would guess so. I really lost touch. In
fact, I didn't maintain any touch with anybody. I
don't usually when I'm over there. Right. because
it's profitless and I don't mean that from the
monetary sense I mean that from the emotional
sense it's profitless what we had in common is God
I'm not there anymore and you're there so I don't
maintain any relationship with people I've
served with before very rare exception what we had
in common was our service together that's over and
I'm going on to new friends And you're going on to
new friends. If we meet again, we'll be friends
again, but... We're going on. That's right.
Everybody goes forward. Right. Well, if you were
going to sum up your experience in Vietnam, what
would you say? I would say it was entirely worth it.
I would say entirely worth it in every respect. I
like the experience. I like the service.
I thought we were trying to do some good there. I
never felt a sense that we were being rejected by
the Vietnamese people, that we were doing
something unpopular. And you might say, well, in
Saigon, where everybody was under the thumb of the
police, you think that is realistic. But I was out
in the country, too. And people were either the
ones that I had an opportunity to see were either
for us or, at worst, indifferent. But I saw we did a
lot of good, I thought, with the
economy. And I only saw the best of motives towards
the .. Only the best of
motives. And to say, hey, such a nice and wonderful
and fine people, you're first certainly going to
feel a certain remorse that something like this
had to happen. When
you talked about the countrymen, the country
people that you saw, do you feel like there was more
indifference out there than there really was
feelings? Did a lot of people just live their own
lives? Well, they tried to. They tried to. But in
some way or not, in some way they're certainly
going to be involved. But you're going to get...
people very well in the combat zones, in the fire
zones, certainly couldn't be indifferent to it
because they were threatened every day from
either one side or the other. Maybe not
intentionally, but the threat was there when you
drop that many explosives and you engage in that
sort of violence, one no matter how innocent or
how... the desire to keep out of the way, you do
become involved. Just like even in Saigon, we were
involved with the little terrorist activities
and the rest of it. You're always conscious of
that. Even in the hotel room or going to and from
work, I always carried a pistol and carried it on my
lap because... You didn't know who was out there.
That's
right, that's right, that's right, that's right.
And you always figured that if you were prepared,
the person might go along and pick on somebody
else. So even though you were in Saigon, as well as I
said, there was always that fear. Well, always
that vigilance. Vigilance would be a word. Oh, you
never let that vigilance down. You were always
concerned. At least I was. I was always concerned,
always aware that you figured that the more
vigilant you were, the less of a target you would
appear to be, less of an attractive target you
would appear to be. And everybody, everybody
carried guns. Everybody had guns. And they
treated them with respect. Respect, I mean, it
was. It was just like you would, you yourself would
carry your purse to school. When you got up in the
morning, you put on the gun. Went to work. You
carried it, you loaded it, it was loaded, and you
kept it in, on driving in the car, you kept it in your
lap. And so it was always, you never went out
without it. Never went out without it. So I would
say, hey, the Vietnamese people were concerned,
and There had to be, too, because I remember that
they would run convoys through the city, and
Vietnamese traffic is just like any other
Oriental city. So I got a great deal of traffic.
Now, these convoys, what they would do is they
would get these five-ton trucks, and they would
run through the city with their horns going, and
they wouldn't stop. They would jump one stop and
maybe it would be about, and going about 40 miles an
hour through the crowded streets. 40 miles an hour
might not seem to you, but through crowded streets
and a lot of intersections. But you knew that you
could hear those horns going, those air horns,
maybe about a half a mile away. And you knew you
better get out of the way because they did not stop
for lights. They did not stop at anything. In a
five-ton truck, he would just run over you, and he
wouldn't even feel it. He'd just keep going. Keep
going. So it was those kind of things that was
always, I would imagine,
caused the local populace to always be constantly
reminded that something was going on. Do you think
after the UN was met in the Vietnam War, Now, when we
got involved with another country, would we be
careful of getting involved? Well, I think you can
see that in Central America. Everybody's
concerned. They've got it on their mind. We don't
want it to be another Vietnam. This is only the
beginning of involvement. I see that on the
television each night. Nobody can say, hey, we
shouldn't give aid to these people. This is the
beginning of another Vietnam. Do you think that's
a true statement, or do you think it's a statement
to say, yeah? Well, I don't know how, I don't really
know how true it is. The really thing is we have to, I
think we have to probably decide for ourselves
whether it's going to involve another Vietnam or
not. Is it necessary to become involved?
Apparently when we became involved in Vietnam,
people thought it was necessary. Maybe they
didn't have the foresight to see that it would end
in that manner. But now that they have one
experience, I think we will not be influenced
by... Oh, yes, we probably will be influenced by
Vietnam in that people will make the decision a lot
more carefully, saying we will become involved
even if it becomes a Vietnam or we won't become
involved because it's not worth it. Do you think
that people that came home from Vietnam got to talk
about it or was it hushed up? I think they talked
about it as much as they wanted to. I think if you
wanted to talk about Vietnam, you could. I never
had any problem with people saying, don't talk
about it, or I talked with people who were over
there. We always talked about it. people who've
been over there, why did you do, how was it, what
were your experiences? So I didn't, I've never
found any reticence by anybody to talk about it if
they wanted to. But people just, just over and done
with it. So you wouldn't take, you'd go again? Oh,
sure, sure, sure, sure, sure. Well, maybe it's
because I didn't have any unhappy experiences
there, except, you know, what ultimately
happened to the people. That's got to be unhappy.
That's got to be sad for us all. But yes, the
experience was just good. It's like all military
experience in the world, but just a question of
degree. Well, thank you for letting me in. OK.